So let's talk a little bit about time.
So the other thing that we might deal with
in our applications is things that happen,
right now,
everything we've dealt with so far,
originally with from an of
was synchronous events.
With from event,
we were just responding to events as
they kind of bubbled up through the DOM.
In this case we also have some abilities
to kind of like, play with time as well.
And so another way that we
can create observables,
is with this helper utility
function called interval.
Interval, creates a observable
stream that will go ahead and
produce values at whatever number
of milliseconds that you want.
Again, where this becomes super useful
is we've separated the ability to
produce values from immediately
doing a set timeout, and
just they're happening, right?
Here, you actually get them and
you can work with them.
Yeah.
>> You can subscribe to this from
many listeners that we can use
reuse this component.
>> We can reuse it, yep.
One of the interesting things a little
caveat there, you can reuse it.
And because again, we've separated
the idea of producing values on a time
interval, from do anything
with those values.
Each subscription will
actually get its own copy,
the interval utility
function starts with value,
starts at I believe 0, 1,
2, so on and so forth.
Here, I'm subtracting it from
starting time just to see that, hey,
it's happening every second.
Now you look at it's like, why is it 1002?
Because JavaScript set timeout,
that's when it puts it on the event loop,
not necessarily when it executes.
So if you've had multiple subscriptions
that each start from the beginning,
there is a way to share one observable
across many subscribers and
when we get to operators.
We'll take a look at that as well probably
a little sooner than I anticipated cuz
it's come up a few times when we'll
look at it in a playground as well.
But yeah, it's again separating the idea
of producing values from doing things for
those values.
Again, with a set timeout, these things
are roughly coupled clear interval,
you've got to keep track, you have
basically the same API for subscribing,
unsubscribing for
all of these different things.
Timer is similar to interval,
the only difference is timer in kind of
give it a value, it will emit
a value after that much time, right?
So, interval will do it after
that much time and continue,
it will not do one immediately.
Timer will also, it will immediately,
it will do it as soon as you have the time
and then you could actually give it
a second value where it will continue
to produce values like an interval.
So, if you needed one where I give me
a value now and then every other second,
we probably use timer for that.
So, you look at two arguments, it will
produce its first value after 2 seconds,
and then every 5 seconds after that,
so you might say something like 0.
And then every second after that,
that would start you immediate event,
and then you get one every other second.
It really just depends on what you need
to do for what the right choice is.
And yeah, they just behave
slightly differently, that's all.
One of the things that we're probably
gonna have to deal with a little bit.
Now that we have infinite values,
is how do I make it stop, [LAUGH] right?
Like the event situation that we
had before with the button clicks.
I mean, yeah, we did not,
we never unsubscribed from it.
But like one way to handle this is
just stop clicking the button, right?
But as soon as we start, if we were
running through one of those infinite
generators we're talking about before,
making it stop is
sometimes super important.
So it turns out that when we
subscribe to an observable,
we get back a subscription object.
It's got a bunch of methods.
It's got the ability to add
other subscriptions, so
you can unsubscribe from a bunch at once.
But the one that we care about at this
moment is the ability to unsubscribe.
Now notice I'm using a set timeout
that feels a little wonky.
If that is the way that you
feel that is a good feeling.
We just don't have the tools yet
to do it the right way.
We are again building up that
toolset of understanding.
But we can unsubscribe from observable
by calling the unsubscribe method.
That will work, if we had a generator
producing a synchronous values.
That will work on a from event.
That will work on any of these timer
intervals as one common API for
making anything stop.
If you need to make stuff stop, you just
reply to that email all caps unsubscribe
and then you have unsubscribed from
that observable and you are good to go.